# Compress TinyLLama model using synthetic data

This example demonstrates how to optimize Large Language Models (LLMs) using NNCF weight compression API & synthetic data for the advanced algorithms usage. The example applies 4/8-bit mixed-precision quantization & Scale Estimation algorithm to weights of Linear (Fully-connected) layers of [TinyLlama/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0](https://huggingface.co/TinyLlama/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0) model.
To evaluate the accuracy of the compressed model we measure similarity between two texts generated by the baseline and compressed models using [WhoWhatBench](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/tools/who_what_benchmark) library.

The example includes the following steps:

- Prepare `wikitext` dataset.
- Prepare `TinyLlama/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0` text-generation model in OpenVINO representation using [Optimum-Intel](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/intel/inference).
- Compress weights of the model with NNCF Weight compression algorithm with Scale Estimation & `wikitext` dataset.
- Prepare `synthetic` dataset using `nncf.data.generate_text_data` method.
- Compress weights of the model with NNCF Weight compression algorithm with Scale Estimation & `synthetic` dataset.
- Measure the similarity of the two models optimized with different datasets.

## Install requirements

To use this example:

- Create a separate Python* environment and activate it: `python3 -m venv nncf_env && source nncf_env/bin/activate`
- Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -U pip
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install ../../../../
```

## Run Example

The example is fully automated. Just run the following command in the prepared Python environment:

```bash
python main.py
```
